docs(structure): New layout (#1593)
kubeshop/tracetest: docs/docs/configuration/connecting-to-data-stores/tempo.md

# Tempo

If you want to use Tempo as the trace data store, you can configure Tracetest to fetch trace data from Tempo.

You'll configure the OpenTelemetry Collector to receive traces from your system and then send them to Tempo. And, you don't have to change your existing pipelines to do so.

:::tip
Examples of configuring Tracetest can be found in the [`examples` folder of the Tracetest GitHub repo](https://github.com/kubeshop/tracetest/tree/main/examples). 
:::

> ## Configure OpenTelemetry Collector to send traces to Tempo

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Configure OpenTelemetry Collector to Send Traces to Tempo
```

In your OpenTelemetry Collector config file, make sure to set the `exporter` to `tempo`, with the `endpoint` pointing to your Tempo's instance on port `4317`. If you are running Tracetest with Docker, the endpoint might look like this `http://tempo:4317`.

```yaml
# collector.config.yaml

# If you already have receivers declared, you can just ignore
# this one and still use yours instead.
receivers:
  otlp:
    protocols:
      grpc:
      http:

processors:
  batch:
    timeout: 100ms

exporters:
  otlp/2:
    endpoint: tempo:4317
    tls:
      insecure: true

service:
  pipelines:
    # your probably already have a traces pipeline, you don't have to change it.
    # just add this one to your configuration. Just make sure to not have two
    # pipelines with the same name
    traces/1:
      receivers: [otlp] # your receiver
      processors: [batch] # make sure to have the probabilistic_sampler before your batch processor
      exporters: [otlp/2] # your exporter pointing to your Tempo instance

```

> ## Configure Tracetest to use Tempo as a trace data store

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Configure Tracetest to Use Tempo as a Trace Data Store
```

> First, configure Tempo to run on port `9095`. Here's how your config file should look like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, configure Tempo to run on port `9095`. Here is an example config file:
```

```yaml
# tempo.config.yaml

auth_enabled: false
server:
  http_listen_port: 3100
  grpc_listen_port: 9095
distributor:

>   receivers:                           # this configuration will listen on all ports and protocols that tempo is capable of.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  receivers:                           # This configuration will listen on all ports and protocols that Tempo is capable of.
```

>     jaeger:                            # the receives all come from the OpenTelemetry collector.  more configuration information can

Reviewer: "the receives all come" - should this be "receivers"?

>     jaeger:                            # the receives all come from the OpenTelemetry collector.  more configuration information can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    jaeger:                            # The receives all come from the OpenTelemetry collector.  More configuration information can
```

>       protocols:                       # be found there: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/tree/master/receiver

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      protocols:                       # be found here: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/tree/master/receiver
```

        thrift_http:                   #
        grpc:                          # for a production deployment you should only enable the receivers you need!
        thrift_binary:
        thrift_compact:
    zipkin:
    otlp:
      protocols:
        http:
        grpc:
    opencensus:
ingester:

>   trace_idle_period: 10s               # the length of time after a trace has not received spans to consider it complete and flush it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  trace_idle_period: 10s               # The length of time after a trace has not received spans to consider it complete and flush it.
```

>   max_block_bytes: 1_000_000           # cut the head block when it hits this size or ...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  max_block_bytes: 1_000_000           # Cut the head block when it hits this size or ...
```

  #traces_per_block: 1_000_000

>   max_block_duration: 5m               #   this much time passes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  max_block_duration: 5m               #   this much time passes.
```

compactor:
  compaction:

>     compaction_window: 1h              # blocks in this time window will be compacted together

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    compaction_window: 1h              # Blocks in this time window will be compacted together.
```

>     max_compaction_objects: 1000000    # maximum size of compacted blocks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    max_compaction_objects: 1000000    # Maximum size of compacted blocks.
```

    block_retention: 1h
    compacted_block_retention: 10m
storage:
  trace:

>     backend: local                     # backend configuration to use

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    backend: local                     # Backend configuration to use.
```

    wal:
      path: /tmp/tempo/wal            # where to store the the wal locally

>       #bloom_filter_false_positive: .05 # bloom filter false positive rate.  lower values create larger filters but fewer false positives

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      #bloom_filter_false_positive: .05 # Bloom filter false positive rate.  Lower values create larger filters but fewer false positives.
```

>       #index_downsample: 10             # number of traces per index record

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      #index_downsample: 10             # Number of traces per index record.
```

    local:
      path: /tmp/tempo/blocks
    pool:

>       max_workers: 100                 # the worker pool mainly drives querying, but is also used for polling the blocklist

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      max_workers: 100                 # The worker pool mainly drives querying, but is also used for polling the blocklist.
```
